# Overrides Intro

The YML files included with and generated by DockSTARTer are NOT meant to be modified.

* Updating DockSTARTer will overwrite the YML files in `~/.docker/compose/.apps/`.
* The `~/.docker/compose/docker-compose.yml` file is generated and rewritten by DockSTARTer when you use the Configuration menu or run `sudo ds -c`.

If you would like to make some adjustments the best way is to use a `docker-compose.override.yml` file.

Docker Compose will look for `~/.docker/compose/docker-compose.override.yml`. Anything you set in this file will be merged in and take priority over the regular configurations.

## 2 Types of Overrides

You can use overrides to modify existing apps (such as changing which image an app uses) or adding all the compose configurations needed to run an entirely new app that's not included in DockSTARTer.

***

The below example will change Sonarr to use hotio's image for Sonarr and add a /media volume. Everything else from the original config such as the remaining volumes and environment variables will merge together.

### Partial Override Merge Example

```yaml
version: "3.4"  # this must match the version in docker-compose.yml
services:
  sonarr:
    image: hotio/sonarr
    volumes:
      - /etc/localtime:/etc/localtime:ro
      - ${DOCKERCONFDIR}/sonarr:/config
      - ${DOCKERSTORAGEDIR}:/storage
```

***

The below example will use the override file to add a app that is not in DS already. This option will need all required docker compose yaml code for the specific app.

### Full App Override Example

```yaml
version: "3.4"  # this must match the version in docker-compose.yml
services:
  alltube:
    container_name: alltube
    environment:
      - PGID=1000
      - PUID=1000
    image: rudloff/alltube
    logging:
      driver: json-file
      options:
        max-file: ${DOCKERLOGGING_MAXFILE}
        max-size: ${DOCKERLOGGING_MAXSIZE}
    ports:
      - "1234:80"
    restart: unless-stopped
    volumes:
      - /etc/localtime:/etc/localtime:ro
      - ${DOCKERCONFDIR}/alltube:/var/www/html/config
      - ${DOCKERSTORAGEDIR}:/storage
```

#### Make sure to run `ds -c` or `ds -c up <appname>` after you make changes to your override file
